---
layout: post
title: "til"
author: "Alan Lin"
date: 2016-07-20 10:07:16
tags:
- python
- pycharm
- mac keys
---

### List reversal

I was trying to reverse a list in python yesterday and learned a really neat 
trick to do a non-inplace reversal. 

Instead of using the standard `.reverse` method on the list data type which 
does an in-place reversal and does not return the list, we can do 
`somelist[::-1]`. This is known as the "Martian Smiley" and it WORKS! Still not 
sure why because the whole `[:]` syntax still confuses me but I'll look into 
that later. 

### Built in `__file__` variable

Apparently `__file__` is a variable that is available in a running python 
script that contains the name of the file being run. We used it in one of our 
programs to get the path of our application.

For example:

`sys.path.abspath(__file__)` will return the absolute path to the file.

### Mac keys

I've always had a lot of trouble remembering what keys the different mac 
symbols stood for. Recently I figured that may have to do with me not 
understanding the meaning of the keys in the first place.

The shift key is that big arrow going up. The original purpose of the shift key 
was to uppercase letters. So it helps to think of the arrow as indicating 
a growth / increase in size. 

The option key is unique to mac - it was created to introduce accents for 
non-english characters. The symbol looks like it has some kind of weird accent 
on the right so that makes it easy to remember.

Finally, the control key is a modifier key that added invisible symbols. In 
other words, it doesn't introduce visible characters on the screen but it does 
produce invisible characters with other behavior. The mac symbol for this is 
a tiny arrow which looks like something inconspicuous and nearly hidden.


