---
layout: post
title:  "BASH Scripting"
date:   2016-04-05 09:58:12 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

After we got rid of Gulp and migrated the commands over to NPM, we needed to 
also set environment variables for webpack to use the correct configuration 
that's specific to the environment (Development, Production). 

In our webpack config, we had:

    var ENV = process.env.ENV = process.env.NODE_ENV = "development"

Our NPM Script command was:

    NODE_ENV=production npm run build:js -- --config webpack.config.js

Even though we had our `NODE_ENV` set to `production`, we were still getting 
the development build. The problem is that we're assigning `development` to 
`process.env.NODE_ENV`, which gets assigned to `process.env.ENV` in our webpack 
config. Woops. But we didn't think this was the problem - instead, we assumed 
that the problem was how we were exporting our environment variable. As 
a result, we learned a few things about exporting environment variables and 
bash.

* `export NODE_ENV=production`. Export is a bash command. This doesn't 
  necessarily work in all shells.
* `NODE_ENV=production` is a more cross-shell command.
* The difference is that in BASH, `export` makes the variable available to both 
  the current shell and all child shells that are spawned. The latter command 
  only makes the variable available to the current shell.
* `echo "bar" &` runs the echo as a background process. Yeah, weird. Everything 
  before the ampersand means run this as BG process.
* `echo "bar" && echo "foo"`. Turns out, the command after `&&` is executed in 
  a new shell instance. What this means is that when we do `NODE_ENV=production 
  && npm run ...`, the second command does not have access to the `NODE_ENV` 
  variable. This is why we kept getting `undefined` when logging the `NODE_ENV` 
  variable in the webpack config.

